Blog: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy GA (#45552)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-04-01-validating-admission-policy-ga/index.md

------
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.30: Validating Admission Policy Is Generally Available"
slug: validating-admission-policy-ga

> date: 2024-04-01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-24
```
The Comms Team has scheduled a publication date for this post for April 24, 2024. Please update the date on the PR, thanks!

> canonicalUrl: https://www.k8s.dev/blog/2024/04/01/validating-admission-policy/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This doesn't mirror an article on the contributor blog, so omit this line.

---

**Author:** Jiahui Feng (Google)

> We are excited to announce that Validating Admission Policy has reached its General Availability

Reviewer 2: We avoid “we” unless the article has multiple authors (it avoids confusion about who “we” represents).
Try:
```suggestion
On behalf of the Kubernetes project, I am excited to announce that ValidatingAdmissionPolicy has reached
**general availability**
```

(other tweaks are also aligning with our style guide)

as part of Kubernetes 1.30 release. If you have not yet read about this new declarative alternative to

> validating admission webhooks, it may be interesting to read our
> [previous post](/blog/2022/12/20/validating-admission-policies-alpha/) about the new feature.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of:
```suggestion
validating admission webhooks, it may be interesting to read the
[previous post](/blog/2022/12/20/validating-admission-policies-alpha/) by my two of my colleagues
at Google, introducing
this new API.
```
?

Author: Looks good. Thank you.

If you have already heard about Validating Admission Policy and you are eager to try it out, there is no better time to do it now.

Let's have a taste of Validating Admission Policy by replacing a simple webhook. 

> # The Webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example admission webhook
```

	var errs []error
	for i, c := range deploy.Spec.Template.Spec.Containers {
		if c.Name == "" {
			return fmt.Errorf("container %d has no name", i)
		}
		if c.SecurityContext == nil {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q does not have SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.RunAsNonRoot == nil || !*c.SecurityContext.RunAsNonRoot {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must set RunAsNonRoot to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.ReadOnlyRootFilesystem == nil || !*c.SecurityContext.ReadOnlyRootFilesystem {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must set ReadOnlyRootFilesystem to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.AllowPrivilegeEscalation != nil && *c.SecurityContext.AllowPrivilegeEscalation {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must NOT set AllowPrivilegeEscalation to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
		if c.SecurityContext.Privileged != nil && *c.SecurityContext.Privileged {
			errs = append(errs, fmt.Errorf("container %q must NOT set Privileged to true in its SecurityContext", c.Name))
		}
	}
	return errors.NewAggregate(errs)
}
```

> Check out [the doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out [What are admission webhooks?](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#what-are-admission-webhooks)
```

> for a refresher on how admission webhooks work. Or, see the [full code](https://gist.github.com/jiahuif/2653f2ce41fe6a2e5739ea7cd76b182b) of this webhook to follow along this walkthrough. 

Reviewer 2: You can put an example in, but please serve it from inside https://github.com/kubernetes/website/tree/main/content/en/blog rather than on your personal GitHub account.

> # The Policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Migrated to a ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
```
?

      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments"]
  validations:
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, has(c.securityContext) && has(c.securityContext.runAsNonRoot) && c.securityContext.runAsNonRoot)
    message: 'all containers must set runAsNonRoot to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, has(c.securityContext) && has(c.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem) && c.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem)
    message: 'all containers must set readOnlyRootFilesystem to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation) || !c.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation)
    message: 'all containers must NOT set allowPrivilegeEscalation to true'
  - expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers.all(c, !has(c.securityContext) || !has(c.securityContext.privileged) || !c.securityContext.privileged)
    message: 'all containers must NOT set privileged to true'
```
Check its status again, and you should see all warnings cleared.

Next, let's create a namespace for our tests.
```shell
kubectl create namespace policy-test
```

> Then, bind the policy to the namespace. But at this point, we set the action to `Warn` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, I bind the policy to the namespace. But at this point, I'll set the action to `Warn` 
```
(we [avoid using “we”](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-using-we))

Author: Ahh should've read the style guide earlier. Also the next section says use present tense, so

Then, I bind the policy to the namespace. But at this point, I set the action to `Warn`

> so that the policy prints out warnings instead of rejecting the requests.

Reviewer 2: Optional, but recommended:
```suggestion
so that the policy prints out [warnings](/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/) instead of rejecting the requests.
```

Warning: Validation failed for ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'pod-security.policy.example.com' with binding 'pod-security.policy-binding.example.com': all containers must NOT set privileged to true
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "webhook.example.com" denied the request: [container "nginx" must set RunAsNonRoot to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must set ReadOnlyRootFilesystem to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must NOT set AllowPrivilegeEscalation to true in its SecurityContext, container "nginx" must NOT set Privileged to true in its SecurityContext]
```
Looks great! The policy and the webhook give equivalent results.
After a few other cases, when we are confident with our policy, maybe it is time to do some cleanup.

- For every expression, we repeat access to `object.spec.template.spec.containers` and each `securityContext` in every expression;
- There is a pattern of checking presence of a field and then accessing it, which looks a bit verbose.

> Fortunately, with the release of Kubernetes 1.28, we have new solutions for both issues.

Reviewer 2: Is this right? v1.28 is not new.

Author: Yes it is correct. I've created an 1.28 cluster to validate.

Variable Composition allows us to extract repeated sub-expressions into their own variables.

> CEL library has also added support for [optionals](https://github.com/google/cel-spec/wiki/proposal-246), which are excellent to work with fields that are, well, optional. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes' implementation of CEL includes support for [optionals](https://github.com/google/cel-spec/wiki/proposal-246), which are excellent to work with fields that are, well, optional.
```

Author: Kubernetes does not have a special implementation of CEL. It is always cel-go. I am changing this to

Kubernetes enables [the optional library]((https://github.com/google/cel-spec/wiki/proposal-246)) for CEL

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "pod-security.policy.example.com"
spec:
  failurePolicy: Fail
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments"]
  variables:
  - name: containers
    expression: object.spec.template.spec.containers
  - name: securityContexts
    expression: 'variables.containers.map(c, c.?securityContext)'
  validations:
  - expression: variables.securityContexts.all(c, c.?runAsNonRoot == optional.of(true))
    message: 'all containers must set runAsNonRoot to true'
  - expression: variables.securityContexts.all(c, c.?readOnlyRootFilesystem == optional.of(true))
    message: 'all containers must set readOnlyRootFilesystem to true'
  - expression: variables.securityContexts.all(c, c.?allowPrivilegeEscalation != optional.of(true))
    message: 'all containers must NOT set allowPrivilegeEscalation to true'
  - expression: variables.securityContexts.all(c, c.?privileged != optional.of(true))
    message: 'all containers must NOT set privileged to true'

> ```

Reviewer 2: Anything you want to add to wrap things up?

Author: Yes there is a whole section of monitoring, coming right up.
